java c
SURF TRIP PLANNING: 
ASSIGNMENT 4 – WAVES 
GEOGRAPHY   20,   FALL   2024
Due:    Sunday, November 3, 11pm The   final   step   in   planning   your   trip   is   to   investigate   various   aspects   of   waves   in   your   area.    The   quality   of   waves   at   any   given   break   depends   on   a   large   number   of   factors   and   it   is   perfectly   reasonable   to   say   that   any   two   waves   at   the   same   break   are   never   the   same.    The   factors   affecting   wave   quality   include   swell   characteristics      (captured   in   the directional   wave   spectrum),   how   far   the   swell   has   traveled   before   making   it   to   shore,   wave   refraction   (depends   on   wave period),   tide   (near   shore   refraction   and   shoaling),   and   local   winds.In this   assignment you will focus on   a   few   of these   factors   and   you   will   apply   some   of the   material   from   lectures   and   the   reading   to   conduct   a   rudimentary   analysis   of swell   propagation   to   refraction.    This   analysis   will   complement   your   work   from   last   week   but   will   be   more   specific   in   terms   of   the   time   scale   and   spatial   scale.    There   are   three   activities:    1)   construct   a   swell   window   for   your   surf destination,   2)   locate   the   most   likely   area   where   storms   will   be   located   during   your visit   and estimate   approximate wind   speeds;   3) estimate   wave   characteristics   that   will   develop   from   a   given   wind   speed,   and   based   on those   characteristics   how   long   it will take the   swell   from   the   storm   to   reach   your   destination;   and   4) investigate the bathymetry   and develop   a   rough   idea   about   near   shore   refraction   and   how   it   will   influence   the   swell.
Activities:I. Constructing a swell window:    In   the   previous   assignments   you   have   been   researching   a   general   stretch   of   coastline   near   the   random   point   you   were   given   at   the   beginning   of   the   quarter.      In   this   assignment   you   need   to   focus   on   a particular break.    Some of you will have   a    “Wannasurf” named break near   you   but   others   will   have   to   pick   a   particular   break   based   on   the   coastal   structure   and   bathymetry   that   is   visible   from   satellite   imagery.    You   can   also   make   your   choice   based   on   whether   you   prefer   rocky   point   breaks   or   less   structured   but   less   hazardous   beach   break.    In   the   last   part   of this   assignment   you   will   have   to   analyze   wave   refraction   so   you   may   want   to   consider   that   aspect   in   selecting your   break.      Once   you   have   selected   a   particular   break,   follow   the   instructions   below   to   find   the   swell   window   and   visualize   it   in   Google   Earth.(1) Surf break coordinates:    Open   Google   Earth   and   locate   the   surf break   you   want   to   analyze.    You   can   find   the latitude and longitude coordinates for   the   break   in   two   ways:    1)   click on   the   yellow   thumbtack   in   the   menu   bar,   and   then   drag   the   thumbtack   until   it   is   directly   on   your   break;   or   2)   hold   the   cursor   over   the   break   and   the coordinates will be shown at the   bottom   of the   Google   Earth   window.    The coordinates will   be   expressed   in   degrees,   minutes,   seconds.   Write them   down on   a piece of paper   or   copy   and   paste   them   into   a   text   document.
Example:   If   you   do   this   for   Campus   Point,   you   will   find   coordinates   as   latitude   34o   24′ 16.69”N   and   longitude 119o   50′ 39.16”W.
(2) Coordinates for obstructions to wave energy:    Zoom   out   so   that   you   can   see   your   surf break’s   location   relative to major   surrounding land masses   or   islands   that   will   block   energy   from   reaching   your   break.    Imagine   a   line   in   the   ocean   from   your   break   that   is   tangent   to   (or   just   touches)   the   land   mass   at   a   single   point.    Record the   latitude   and   longitude   at   that   point   of   tangency.      Repeat   that   exercise   for   the   northernmost   extent   of   exposure   and   the   southernmost   extent   of   exposure   so   that   you   have   found   two   pairs   of   coordinates.Example:         For      Campus      Point’s      western      swell      window      you      would      select      one      point      near      Point         Concep-   tion      (34o   26′ 30.90”N,120o   27′ 7.63”W)    and      another      point      tangent      to      the      north      side      of      San      Miguel      Island      (   34o   3′ 42.19”N,   120o   25′ 16.52”W).
(3) Calculate bearing:   Open to the   GPS    Visualizer (http://www.gpsvisualizer.com/calculators).   Use the   tool to Calculate the great circle distance between two points by entering your the   coordinates   for   you   your   break   as Lat1,Lon1 and   for   one   of the   tangency   points   from   the   step   above   for Lat2,Lon2 Click   on the   distance   button   Distance->   and   the   tool   will   return   a   bearing   and   a   distance.    Write   down    (or   copy)   the   bearing   and   then   scroll   down   to   the Find the coordinates at a given distance and bearing tool.   Enter   the   coordinates   for   your   break   as   the   starting   Lat,   Lon,   enter   8000   for   the   distance,   and   paste   the   heading   in the   Bearing box, then   click the   arrow to   calculate.    On the   right   side   of the   tool   the   is   a   button   labelled Draw Map and   a   pulldown   menu   for output format.    Set   output   format   to   google   earth   and   the   click   on Draw Map.   It   will   open   up   a   new   page   with   the   option   to   download   a   KML   file.      Save   it   to   your   disk.   Now   repeat   the   same   steps   for   the   other   point   (if you   started   with   the   northern   obstruction   then   repeat   for   the   southern)   so   that   you   have   saved   bearings   and   two   KMZ   files.    Go   to   Google   Earth   (or   reopen   it   if   you   closed   it),   navigate to   the   KMZ   files   and   double-click   them   and   they   will   open   in   GE.
Example:   For   Campus   Point’s   northern   extent   I   entered   (   34o   3′ 42.19”N,   120o   25′ 16.52”W)   for   Lat1,   Lon1   and Point   Conception   (34o   26′   30.90”N,120o   27′   7.63”W)   for   Lat2,   Lon2   as   shown   below.

The   northernmost   bearing   of   swells   that   will   directly   reach   Campus   Point   is   274   .424o.    Using   the   campus   point coordinate   and   the   bearing,   I   create   a   line   on   that   bearing   stretching   8000km.
After   repeating   the   exercise   for   the   San   Miguel   Island   southern   boundary   of the   swell   window,   I   find   that   the   western   swell   window   for   Campus   Point   is   approximately   (234o   ,   274o   )   and   I   can   display   the   result   by   opening the   saved   KMZ   files   in   Google   Earth.
For   Part   I   you   should   include   in   your   write-up:    1)   coordinates   of   the   surf   spot,    2)   coordinates   of   the   northernmost   boundary,   3)   coordinates   of   the   southernmost   boundary,   4)   northern   and   southern   bearings,   and   5)   a   screen   shot   of the   swell   window   from   Google   Earth.II. Storm → Wind Speed:   In   the   last   assignment   you   should   have   selected   a   month   when   you   plan   to   make   your   surf trip.   Now you will look more closely   at   the   storm   generation   area   that   should   feed   swells   towards   your   surf destination   and   speculating   about   the   wind   speed   for   a   hypothetical   storm.   Follow   the   steps   below.
(1) Long term trends    in wind    speed:      After   creating   the   swell   windows   in   the   previous   activity,   the   next   step   is   to   assess   the   potential   for   storms   within   the   window   during   the   season   you   plan   to   visit.       Go    to the   National      Centers   for   Environmental   Prediction    (NCEP),   Atmospheric   Variables   Plotting   Page    (http: //www.esrl.noaa.gov/psd/data/histdata/).You   will   see   an   interface   that   allows   you   to   select   a   date   range,   variable,   analysis   level,   plot   type,   and   map domain.   For   the   date   range   enter   the   first   date   and   last   date   for   your   trip   but   with   the   year   set   to   2016.   For   example   if you   plan   to   visit   some   time   in   August,   then   enter   20160801   as   the   start   date   and   20160831   as   the end   date.    For   the Map Domain select    “Custom”   and    “Cylindrical   Equidistant”   projection.    Set   the   values   for   lowest   lat,   highest   lat,   western-most   longitude,   and   eastern-most   longitude   to   define   a   box   that   contains   you   surf   destination   and   the   swell   window.    If you   are   in   the   southern   hemisphere   then   the   lowest   lat   should   not   be   set   below   -60.      For   the   other   parameters   select Which variable=   “Vector   Winds”; Analysis level=   “S代 写GEOGRAPHY 20, FALL 2024 SURF TRIP PLANNING: ASSIGNMENT 4 – WAVESC/C++
代做程序编程语言urface/Other”; Plot type=   “Climatology”;   and Shading Type=   “Shaded w/overlying   Contours”   .Click on   “Create Plot” and a new page   will   open   with   your   plot.    The vector wind   plot   contains the   long-run   	average   wind   speed   (meters   per   second)   and   direction   (indicated   by   arrows)   for   the   date   range   you   selected.(2) Hypothetical storm:   Use   the   plot   and   the   swell   windows   to   get   a   rough   idea   of   the   windspeeds   and   directionswithin   the   swell   window.      The   long   run   averages   will   not   reflect   the   wind   speeds   that   can   be   achieved   in   a specific   storm   but   will   indicate   where   storms   and   strong   winds   are   most   likely   to   occur.   Select   a   latitude   and   longitude   coordinate   within   the   swell   window   where   you   think   storms   might   occur   during   your   visit   and   how   fast your expect the winds   will   blow   in   this   hypothetical   storm.    To get   a   sense   of the   variation   that   is   possible   you can use the Atmospheric Variables Plotting   Page   again,   but   instead   of selecting   “Climatology”   for   the   plot   type   select   “Mean”   .   The   plot   will   then   show   only   the   average   values   for   the   exact   date   range   in   a   single   year,   instead   of the   long   run   average   over   multiple   years.   By   varying   the   individual   year   you   will   see   how   each   year varies   from   the   long   run   average.Example: Continuing the example from above focusing on Campus Point, I selected the minimum and maximum latitude and longitude range (shown below) that contains the swell window.The long run average indicates that for the end of December (25th to 31st) there is a large pocket of weak (<2 m/s) winds near 30oN that sits off the coast of California between 125oW to 140oW. But further west, near 30oN and 160oW,   a   belt   of   moderate   winds   dips   into   the   Campus   Point   swell   window   with   winds   speeds   averaging   3.5-4m/s.   The   winds   are just   barely   inside   the   swell   window   and   they   are   still   quite   weak. By   changing   from   long   run   averages   (“Climatology”)   to   analysis   of single   years,   it   was   possible   to   find   larger   storms         that   dipped   into   the   swell   window.   One   example   is   shown   below   and   represents   a   storm   that   may   have   generated   one   of   the   recent   swells.   Notice   that   in   the   same   area,   30oN   and   160oW,   identified   as   promising   from   the   long   run averages   there   is   a   large   area   (fetch)   with   wind   speeds   of   between   14-15m/s.   For   my   hypothetical   storm   I   will   have   it centered   at   30oN   and   160oW   with   14m/s   winds. 
III. Winds → Waves:    After   the   previous    activity   you   will   have   selected   hypothetical   coordinates   for   a   storm   and   a   wind   speed.    From   the   wind   speed   we   can   develop   estimates   of   significant   wave   height      (H1/3)   and   wave   period      (T).   Given   those   quantities   we   can   estimate   the   wave   speed   (c),   the   group   speed   (cg   ),   and   given   the   distance   to   the   storm   we   can   estimate   when   waves   from   the   storm   will   reach   your   surf destination.
(1) Winds → Wave Energy Spectra → Wave Period:    As   discussed   in   lecture,   a   fixed   wind   speed   blowing   over   a   large   area   (fetch)   and   for   a   long   duration   will   transfer   energy   into   the   ocean   until   the   equilibrium   wave   energy   spectrum   results.    There   are   different   theories   and   mathematical   expression   that   have   been   developed   to   describe   the   energy   transfer   and   equilibrium   spectrum.    An   early   theory   is   due   to   Pierson   and   Moskowitz (1964). The   mathematical   expression   that   fit   their   observational   data   from   the   North   Atlantic   describes   the   wave   energy   spectra   (S)   as: 
where   ω   is   the   wave   frequency   in   radians      (ω    =   2πf),   g   is   acceleration   from   gravity      (9.8ms2   ),α   and   β    are parameters   estimated   from   observations, and ωo    = g/U19   .    The   last   term   includes   U19   , the   wind   speed   measured in   meters   per   second   at   19.5   meters   above   the   sea   surface.We   can   use   the   equation   to   estimate   the   wave   spectra   associated   with   a   wind   speed   as   shown   below. While   the   curves   might   look   complicated,   the   equation   simplifies   if we   are   only   interested   in   estimating   peak   period   or   significant   wave   height.    Peak   wave   period   is   simply   T   =   0.7500696U10   ,   where   U10      is   the   surface   wind speed   in   meters   per   second.   Significant   wave   height   is   only   slightly   more   complicated,   H1/3    = 0.22 g/U 2 10 .   These equations   are   plotted   in   the   figure   below. Using   the   equation   for   peak   wave   period   and   significant   wave   height   (or   using   the   figure   above   to   look   up approximate   values),   you   can   translate   wind   speed   to   wave   period   and   height.      As   discussed   in   lecture,   the wave   group   speed   in   deep   water   can   be   written   as   a   function   of   wave   period,   cg      = c/2 = 2/1.56T   =   0.78T.    You can   use   the   GPS      Visualizer      site   again   to   calculate   the   distance   from   the   storm   to   your   surf   break.    Once   you have   the   distance   (in   meters),   you   can   solve   for   the   time;   cg      = t/d   →   t   = cg/d   .    The   equation   will   give   you   time in   seconds   which   you   can   convert   to   hours   by   dividing   by   3600.
Example: Using the the GPS Visualizer, the distance from Campus Point (34o3′42.19”N, 120o25′16.52”W) to the hypothetical storm (30oN,160oW) is 3,792.836 km or 3,792,836m. The peak period from a wind speed of 14 m/s is estimated as 0.7500696 × 14 = 10.50097 seconds. Wave group speed can then be estimated as cg = 0.78 × 10.50097 = 8.190757 m/s. Waves from the hypothetical storm are estimated to reach Campus Point in 8.190757/3,792,836   = 463, 063 seconds, or 3600/463,063 ≈ 129 hours or roughly 5 days.
We can also estimate the significant wave height as the waves move away from the storm as 0.22 9.8/142 = 4.4 meters or roughly 14 feet. The waves are coming a long distance and wave heights will decay along the way. When the waves reach Campus Point they will be less than 14 feet.IV. Wave refraction (near shore):    The   last   step   is   to   assess   the   bathymetry   and   refractive   tendencies   near   shore   for your   surf   break.         Bathymetric   data   is   for   near   shore   environments   is   difficult   to   find   and   there   are   no   easy   online   applications   to   draw   wave   rays   or   visualize   wave   refraction.    While   it   is   not   that   complicated   (you   would   use   Snell’s   Law),   it   would   require   a   good   deal   of calculating   and   work   with   protractors.   Instead   I   would   like   you   to   make   a   more   casual   visual   interpretation   of   your   break   based   on   the   swell   direction   (you   can   figure   this   out   using   the      GPS      Visualizer site)   and   the   shoreline   and   underwater   features   that   are   visible   using   Google   Earth.    You   can   save   a   detailed   picture   of the   break   from   Google   Earth,   print   it   and   then   draw   on   it   (or   or   annotate   it   in   Preview,   Paint   etc.)   to   indicate   how   you   expect   wave   energy   will   either   dissipate   (convex   refraction)   or   increase   (concave   refraction)   as   the   swell   arrives   at   your   break.   After   you   finish   marking   it   up,   you   can   take   a   picture   of it   or   scan   it   to   create   a   digital   file   to   include   in   your   synthesis.
Synthesis:
•   The   goal   of   this   assignment   is   a   little   different   than   the   others.    I   am   trying   to   get   all   of   you   to   engage   and   think   more   deeply   about   the   lecture   material   on   storms   and   waves.    You   need   to   write   a   report   that   covers   each   activity   on   this   assignment.   Some   results   will   be   graphical   (swell   window,wind   climate,bathymetry)   and   other results will be calculations   (characteristics of the waves from   a hypothetical   storm,   how   fast   will   the   swell   travel, when will it arrive).    For the graphical   results you   should   include   an   interpretation.    For the   calculations   you   should   show   your   work.
•   This   assignment   will   not   require   references.
•   There   is   no   minimum   page   count   on   this   assignment.
•   Include   a   header   on   the   report   with   your   name,   perm   number,   and   your   section   (day   /   time).   Upload   the   file   to   the   Geography   20   GauchoSpace   site.   There   is   a   link   that   says:    “Click   here   to   upload   Assignment   4.”   Click on   the   link   and   follow   the   instructions.   Contact   your   TA   if you   have   any   questions.

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
